In the morning:

1 Learn UML Sequence Diagram and practice it
2 Summarize the requirements from USS on transport module, send it
  to Mr. Lam, Tham, Soon, and Toni(done)
3 Think of the messaging flow and review the design document
4 Think about if to add a sequence diagram to the design document

In the afternoon:

5 Review the class diagram
5 Finish the coding of the classes on the class diagram
6 Finish the controllers of TM and GV
7 Learn something on creating an Http Client to post messages
8 Explain the situation on my side that if GV wants to connect
  to us, we need to put the server application on a machine with
  static IP



Hi Helen, Roy, and the transport department,

  During the demo of the transport module yesterday, you proposed the following
changes:
  1 Automatically set all the trips to "Ready" status after the Sea job is
    transferred into the Haulage System.
    >> We will give you a checkbox for you to enable this behavior, and default
      it to be "ticked". But be aware that it means you won't be able to modify
      the details of the trips any more(because they are in "Ready" status).
  2 Order of the Columns, prompt the WorkOrderReference(the Sea Job Number) to
    the front of the grid(inbetween the JobID and HaulageJobNumber columns)
    >> We will make this change for you, but before releasing it to you, we need
      to test it properly, to ensure it works on different Operating Systems(
      Windows 7, Windows 8...)
  3 Change the words of LegType from: FirstOfTwo, SecondOfTwo to 1/2, 2/2...
    >> We will make this change for you.
  4 More searching options. You want the JobTrips form on the planning module
    to be searchable by Sea Job Number.
    >> We will provide this search option for you.
  5 In planning, assigining a "Ready" trip from the JobTrips form to the schedule
    control by:
    (1) "Right-Click" the trip
    (2) Select an available driver
    (3) Confirm
    And the trip will be arranged as the last plan-trip of the selected driver.
    >> We will add this feature for you, but we need to test it properly before
      releasing it to you.
  6 In planning, get rid of the JobTrips form, and use the middle pannel instead.
    >> We understand your suggestion. However, this change will affect a lot of the   
      current
      system, if we made this change, we will do a lot of testing before we're 
      sure it works under any possible scenarios. I'm afraid at this moment we'd better
      help you to solve more critical problems(if there are any) to make sure the
      whole transport module works lively, and leave this requirement to be reconsidered
      after going live.

    Thanks for your time, and please go on using the transport module and let me 
  know when you have any problems.



