1 What is a web application?
    >> Web application is a kind of software application that builds on top of
the Browser / Server architecture, and the HTTP protocol.
    >> On the server side, a web application listens to HTTP requests from
client side(usually the browser), and process the requests, then send result
back to the client side(usually in HTML format).
    >> The web application is usually contained by a web application container
on the Server side, that is used to config and manage the web application.

2 Microsoft's solution of web application programming:
  2.1 IIS as the web application container, web sites or web applications are
placed under IIS.
  2.2 Use ASP.NET WebForm Framework or ASP.NET MVC Framework to develop web
application. Develop a web application means:
    1) The web application keeps running, and listening to requests from the
client.
    2) When the client sends a request to the root directory to the web
application, a default page is send back to the client.
    3) The client having the default page, then fill in forms on it, and
submit(this is a POSTBACK).
    4) The web application receives the POSTBACK(containing client data on the
forms), and process it(usually update the data into database).
    5) The web application then send result information(such as data saved
successfully) to the client.
    6) The client then proceed with another request(using the browser).

3 Details of ASP.NET WebForm
  3.1 First of all, ASP.NET WebForm application provides a default page, which
whenever a client access the url of the web application, it displays on the
browser.
  3.2 The default page is mostly HTML, plus kinds of ASP.NET controls. 
  3.3 ASP.NET controls are consist of asp:text, asp:button, asp:dropdownlist,
asp:checkbox and so on...
  3.4 The user works on the ASP.NET controls, and ASP.NET controls will then
send their new state to the server side, for processing.
  3.5 After processing, results will send back from the web application server
to the client.

4 Details of ASP.NET MVC

