1 What is Session?
  1.1 HTTP is a stateless protocol, it can't hold client information on a
page.
  1.2 If the user inserts some information and move to the next page, that
data will be lost and the user would not be able to retrieve that information.
  1.3 Session provides a facility to store information on server memory.
  1.4 Session can support any type of object to store along with custom
objects.
  1.5 For every client, session data is stored separately, meaning session
data is stored on a per client basis.

2 Where is session data(session state) stored precisely?
  From MSDN documentation:
  2.1 ASP.NET session state supports several storage options for session
variables. Each option is identified as a session-state Mode type.
  2.2 The default behavior is to store session variables in the memory space
of the ASP.NET worker process.
  2.3 You can also specify the session state should be stored in a spearate
process, in a SQL Server database, or in a custom data source.
  2.4 You can also disable session state for your application by setting the
session mode to Off.
  2.5 In ASP.NET, you have a Session Cookie. This cookie is used to identify
which session is yours; but doesn't actually contain the session
information(meaning, actual Session data is still stored on server side).
  2.6 When the ASP.NET application is set to stateless = true, the session
data is stored in the URL.

3  What is Cookie?
  3.1 Cookie is also called:
    web cookie,
    internet cookie,
    browser cookie
    or simply cookie.
  3.2 Cookie is a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in a
user's web browser while the user is browsing that website.
  3.3 When the user loads the website, the browser sends the cookie back to
the server to notify the website of the user's previous activity.
  3.4 Cookies were designed to be a reliable mechanism for websites to
remember stateful information(such as items in a shopping cart)or to record
the user's browsing activity(including clicking particular buttons, logging
in, or recording which pages were visited by the user as far back as months or
years ago).
  3.5 Tracking cookies and especially third-party tracking cookies are
commonly used as ways to compile long-term records of individuals' browsing
histories--a potential privacy concern that prompted European and U.S. law
makers to take action in 2011.
  3.6 Cookies can also store passwords and form content a user has previously
entered, such as credit card number and an address.
  3.7 Other kinds of cookies perform essential functions in the modern web.
Perhaps most importantly, authentication cookies are the most common method
used by web servers to know whether the user is logged in or not, and which
account they are logged in with. Without such a mechanism, the site would not
know whether to send a page containing sensitive information, or require the
user to authenticate themselves by logging in.

4 ASP.NET Page life cycles

5 ASP.NET Page Level Events

6 IsPostBack

7  

